# Playing around with Android Things, Kotlin, and Brio Trains

## About the app/project

At Google I/O 2018 I got one of the 
[Android Things Starter Kits](https://androidthings.withgoogle.com/#!/kits/starter-kit) they were giving away as part 
of a scavenger hunt.

Again at Google I/O 2018, at all the Android sessions it was just Kotlin Kotlin Kotlin on all the coding
screenshots and live demos -- I seriously saw more Python code projected on the screens than I did Java.

In January I was one of the recipients of the 2018 "Grow with Google" Google Developer Challenge Scholarship, 
admitting me to a three-month "Grow with Google" Intermediate Android Developer challenge course exclusively for 
scholarship recipients, and then in April I received a scholarship to a special six-month Udacity/Google Android 
Developer Nanodegree program for the top 10% of students from the challenge course. 

The scholarship program actually covers four different specializations, so we're sorted into four houses (ABND, AND, 
FEND, and MWS), with each of us having gotten into phase 1 in the first place by receiving a "We are excited ..." 
letter offering us a place here, like the "We are pleased ..." Hogwarts letters, so as you can imagine I'm having good 
witchly/wizardly fun. I'm in house AND, presumably as in "Embrace the power of ..." in addition to Android Nanodegree.

I was also selected as a Student Leader for the program, and have been having a blast helping other students with 
their projects, questions, and motivation. Our Grow With Google Nanodegrees Slack team already has a "student_leaders" 
channel, but this morning an "and_track_leaders" channel was created as well, and when I saw it and that I had been 
added to it, what popped into my head was that for a fun project for playing with both my Android Things kit and Kotlin 
I should write an app and wire the Android Things kit up to display a scrolling "GWG AND TRACK" marquee message and 
scrolling rainbow LED strip on the [Rainbow HAT](https://shop.pimoroni.com/products/rainbow-hat-for-android-things), 
while mounted to and powering (via a [motor](https://www.sparkfun.com/products/11696) from an Arduino kit I have) a 
Brio train in circles around an actual track.

So right now with this app, when you press button A on the Rainbow HAT it toggles the scrolling displays on and off, 
and when you press button B it toggles the motor on and off. But when I was experimenting with powering a Brio train 
using a rubberband between the motor and one of its axles, this did not work well, plus it's been long enough since 
we'd gotten the Brio trains out that they were smaller than I remembered. Hmmm ... I think I will have to dig through 
the garage to figure out where the Lego trains wound up, and work on hooking everything up to one of those instead.

So ... more later!
